MSC4126: Deprecation of query string auth (#4126)
matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals: proposals/4126-deprecate-query-string-auth.md

Author: Implementation requirements:

* None, in my opinion. The MSC is not feasible to implement beyond what has already been described in the proposal itself.

  typically logged by default.

* Users often copy and paste URLs from their clients to either get support or provide direct links
  to content/media. While the media angle is largely expected to be resolved with [MSC3916](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3916),
  users are currently able to right click images in their client and copy the URL - if this URL
  includes authentication in the query string, the user will likely end up disclosing their access
  token. The same scenario applies when copy/pasting request logs out of a client when getting
  support.

* Having two ways of doing things could lead to compatibility issues, where a client using the query
  string approach is tried against a server which only supports the header. The client ends up not
  working, leading to subpar user experience.

* Most clients have already adopted the header approach, largely forgetting that the query string
  even exists. Continuing to support the query string option leaves some maintenance burden for what
  is effectively unused code.

* Matrix has [decided](https://matrix.org/blog/2023/09/matrix-2-0/) to adopt OIDC for authentication,

>   which [does not allow](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics#section-4.3.2)

Reviewer: This isn't quite right. https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics is a "Best practices" document for OAuth 2.0, so this should maybe be:

```suggestion
  which is based on OAuth 2.0, which [advises against](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics#section-4.3.2)
```

Really, this is just evidence that this is a sensible change to make (ie, others are thinking the same way), rather than a concern in its own right.
